releases: add tidb 5.0.6 release notes (#7316)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.0.6.md

---
title: TiDB 5.0.6 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.0.6 Release Notes

Release date: December 28, 2021

TiDB version: 5.0.6

## Compatibility changes

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Output the cdc server cmd error from stdout to stderr. [#3133](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3133)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Set Kafka sink default `max-message-bytes` to `10M`.
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    (dup) - Fix the issue that optimistic transaction conflicts might cause transactions to block each other [#11148](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11148)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)
    (dup) - Show the affected SQL statements in the debug log when the coprocessor encounters a lock, which is helpful in diagnosing problems [#27718](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27718)

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Move verify_checksum to import-thread from apply-thread. [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)
>     - Add metrics for raft log garbage-collect to locate performance problem. [#11374](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11374)
>     - Hide untouched storage commands' metrics in grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)
> 
> + PD
> 
>     (dup) - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)
>     - Make scatter range scheduler work better by allowing empty region schedule and fix config [#4497](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4497)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to import thread pool from apply thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)
    - Add metrics for the garbage collection module of Raft logs to locate performance problems in this module [#11374](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11374)
    - Collapse some uncommon metrics related to storage in Grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)

+ PD

    (dup) - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)
    - Make the `scatter-range-scheduler` scheduler work better by allowing to schedule empty regions and fix configurations [#4497](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4497)
```

Reviewer 3: pd lgtm

        (dup) - Add a tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent etcd writes from affecting PD services [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
        - Support batch messages to reduce EtcdWorker tick. [3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)
        (dup) - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1798)
        - Add Kafka sink default configuration config.Metadata.Timeout. [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)
        - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)

    + (Backup & Restore) BR

        - Retry pd request and TiKV IO timeout error [#27787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27787)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     (dup) - Fix the `privilege check fail` error when performing the `grant` and `revoke` operations to grant and revoke global level privileges [#29675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29675)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue that may occur when DML and DDL statements are executed concurrently [#30940](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30940)
    (dup) - Fix the `privilege check fail` error when performing the `grant` and `revoke` operations to grant and revoke global level privileges [#29675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29675)
```
Add a note after re-building on 12.27. @qiancai. PTAL. Thanks.

    (dup) - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    - Fix the TiDB panic when inserting invalid date values concurrently [#25393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25393)
    - Fix the unexpected `can not found column in Schema column` error for queries in the MPP mode [#30980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30980)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when TiFlash is shuting down [#28096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28096)
    - Fix the unexpected `index out of range` error when the planner is doing join reorder [#24095](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24095)
    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the control functions (such as `IF` and `CASE WHEN`) when using the `ENUM` type data as parameters of such functions [#23114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23114)
    - Fix the wrong result of `CONCAT(IFNULL(TIME(3))` [#29498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29498)
    - Fix the wrong results of `GREATEST` and `LEAST` when passing in unsigned `BIGINT` arguments  [#30101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30101)

>     - Fix the problem that SQL is cancelled when including json column joins char column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a SQL operation is canceled when its JSON type column joins its `CHAR` type column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)
```

>     - Fix the data inconsistency caused by incorrect usage of lazy existence check and untouch key optimization [#30410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30410)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the data inconsistency issue caused by incorrect usage of lazy existence check and untouched key optimization [#30410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30410)
```

>     - Fix the problem that window function may return different results when using transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that window functions might return different results when using a transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)
```

>     - Fix the problem that `cast(integer as char) union string` returns wrong result[#29513](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29513)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that SQL statements that contain `cast(integer as char) union string` return wrong result [#29513](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29513)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when converting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)

>     - Fix the problem that the error `Column 'col_name' in field list is ambiguous` is raised unexpectedly when a SQL contains natural join [#25041](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25041)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `Column 'col_name' in field list is ambiguous` error is raised unexpectedly when a SQL statement contains natural join [#25041](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25041)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (`on` or `off`) [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
    - Fix the problem that the error `index out of range [1] with length 1` is raised when a SQL tries to evaluates an aggregation result on the result of join in some cases [#1978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1978)

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Fix resolved timestamp lag increased after stoping a tikv [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that batch messages are too large in Raft client implementation [#9714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9714)
>     (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs when Region merge, ConfChange, and Snapshot happen at the same time in extreme conditions [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)
>     - Fix the issue that reverse scan can't detect memory locks and may read stale data. [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
>     (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs when Region merge, ConfChange, and Snapshot happen at the same time in extreme conditions [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)
>     - Fix the issue that reverse scan can't detect memory locks and may read stale data. [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
>     - Avoid possible OOM due to the accumulation of GC tasks [#11410](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11410)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that the average latency of the by-instance gRPC requests is inaccurate in TiKV metrics [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)
>     (dup) - Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue of TiCDC panic that occurs when the downstream database is missing [#11123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11123)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that CDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that the Raft connection is broken when the channel is full [#11047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11047)
>     - Fix panic caused by SST NotFound, which is ingested by  Lightning import. [#10438](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10438)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB cannot correctly identify whether the `Int64` types in `Max`/`Min` functions are a signed integer or not, which causes the wrong calculation result of `Max`/`Min` [#10158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10158)
>     - Fix follower meta corruption in rare cases with more than 4 replicas [#10225](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10225)
>     - Fix backup threads leak [#10287](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10287)
>     - copr cast invalid utf8 string to real bug fix [#23322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23322)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue that a downed TiKV node causes the Resolved Timestamp to lag behind [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that batch messages are too large in Raft client implementation [#9714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9714)
    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs when Region merge, ConfChange, and Snapshot happen at the same time in extreme conditions [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when `TableScan` is in descending order [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
    (dup) - 修复历史版本回收任务堆积导致的内存耗尽问题 [#11410](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11410)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the average latency of the by-instance gRPC requests is inaccurate in TiKV metrics [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)
    - Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of TiCDC panic that occurs when the downstream database is missing [#11123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11123)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that CDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the Raft connection is broken when the channel is full [#11047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11047)
    - Fix the issue of TiKV panic that occurs when the files do not exist during TiDB Lightning importing data [#10438](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10438)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB cannot correctly identify whether the `Int64` types in `Max`/`Min` functions are a signed integer or not, which causes the wrong calculation result of `Max`/`Min` [#10158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10158)
    - Fix the issue of TiKV node downtime due to failure to modify meta information after obtaining a snapshot from the leader
    - Fix the issue that the backup thread pool leaks [#10287](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10287)
    - Fix the issue of converting illegal strings into floating-point arithmetic [#23322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23322)
```

+ PD

    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs after the TiKV node is removed [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
    - Fix the issue that operator can get blocked due to down store [#3353](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3353)
    (dup) - Fix slow leader election caused by stucked Region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)
    (dup) - Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule Regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)

>     - Fix the issue that there is the store limit of remove peer of the down store [#4090](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4090)
>     - Fix the issue that the hot cache cannot be cleared when the heartbeat interval is less than 60 [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the speed of removing peers is limited when repairing the down nodes [#4090](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4090)
    - Fix the issue that the hotspot Cache cannot be cleared when the Region heartbeat is less than 60 seconds [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)
```

Reviewer 3: lgtm

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix potential data inconsistency after widening the column type of an integer primary key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up on some platforms, such as ARM, due to the absence of library "libnsl.so"

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up on some platforms, such as ARM, due to the absence of the `libnsl.so` library 
```

>     - Fix the issue that the "Store size" metric does not match the actual data size on a disk

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `Store size` metric does not match the actual data size on a disk
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes due to a "Cannot open file" error

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes due to a `Cannot open file` error
```

Reviewer 5: 中文是进程失败，和英文里的 TiFlash 崩溃是一个意思吗？

    - Fix occasional crashes of TiFlash when an MPP query is killed

>     - Fix the unexpected error "3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants"

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the unexpected error `3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants`
```

    - Fix query failures caused by excessive `OR` conditions

>     - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` are wrong
```

    - Fix inconsistent behaviors of `CastStringAsDecimal` between TiFlash and TiDB/TiKV

>     - Fix query failures caused by the error "different types: expected Nullable(Int64), got Int64"
>     - Fix query failures caused by the error "Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)"

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix query failures caused by the error `different types: expected Nullable(Int64), got Int64`
    - Fix query failures caused by the error `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)`
```

>     - Fix query failures caused by overflow following Decimal comparison

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix query failures caused by overflow when comparing data in the `DECIMAL` data type
```

        - Fix old value enabled is not forced on Canal and Maxwell protocols automatically. [#3676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3676)
        - Fix timezone related error that cause cdc server can't run in some RHEL release version (6.8, 6.9 etc). [#3584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3584)
        - Fix txn_batch_size metric inaccurate issue for Kafka sink. [#3431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3431)
        (dup) - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)
        (dup) - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that `tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m` keeps alerting when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)
        (dup) - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

        - Fix the `Message was too large` error caused by mistaken initialization parameter `max-message-bytes` in MQ sink module
        - Fix TiCDC panic issue when clean task status in ETCD manually
```

---
title: TiDB 5.0.6 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.0.6 Release Notes

> Release date: December 28, 2021

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: December 31, 2021
```

TiDB version: 5.0.6

## Compatibility changes

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Set the default value of Kafka sink `max-message-bytes` to `10M` [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Change the output of the `cdc server` command error from stdout to stderr [#3133](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3133)
        - Set the default value of Kafka sink `max-message-bytes` to `10M` [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)
    (dup) - Show the affected SQL statements in the debug log when the coprocessor encounters a lock, which is helpful in diagnosing problems [#27718](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27718)

+ TiKV

    - Move verify_checksum to import-thread from apply-thread. [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)
    - Add metrics for raft log garbage-collect to locate performance problem. [#11374](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11374)
    - Hide untouched storage commands' metrics in grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)

+ PD

    (dup) - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)
    - Make scatter range scheduler work better by allowing empty region schedule and fix config [#4497](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4497)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC
        (dup) - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

>         - Reduce lock competition in sink module. [#2760](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2760)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     + TiCDC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + TiCDC

```

        (dup) - Fix the issue that changefeed does not fail fast enough when the ErrGCTTLExceeded error occurs [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)
        (dup) - Add a tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent etcd writes from affecting PD services [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)

>         - Support batch messages to reduce EtcdWorker tick. [3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Add a tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent etcd writes from affecting PD services [3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)
```

Reviewer 8: 感觉中英文的侧重不太一样？`支持消息 Batch 操作以减少 EtcdWorker tick 频率`

Reviewer 7: @overvenus 请看下用哪个表达比较合适？

Reviewer 9: 麻烦用 中文 的表达吧

>         (dup) - Add a tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent etcd writes from affecting PD services [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        (dup) - Support batch messages to reduce EtcdWorker tick [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
```

Reviewer 8: 根据[这条 comment](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/7316#discussion_r776142275)，应该用这个表达：支持消息 Batch 操作减少 EtcdWorker tick

        - Add Kafka sink default configuration config.Metadata.Timeout. [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)

>         - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Change Kafka config `max-message-bytes` default value to 10M, and use the minimum of topic‘s `max.message.bytes` and broker's `max.message.bytes` to initialize the producer. [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        - Remove useless old owner and old processor related code after refactoring. [#2765](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2765)
```

>         - Add Kafka sink default configuration config.Metadata.Timeout. [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Add the default configuration for config.Metadata.Timeout in Kafka sink [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)
```

>     + TiCDC
>         (dup) - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)
>         - Reduce lock competition in sink module. [#2760](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2760)
>         (dup) - Fix the issue that scanning stock data might fail due to TiKV performing GC when scanning stock data takes too long [#2470](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2470)
>         (dup) - Fix the issue that changefeed does not fail fast enough when the ErrGCTTLExceeded error occurs [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)
>         (dup) - Add a tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent etcd writes from affecting PD services [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
>         - Support batch messages to reduce EtcdWorker tick. [3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)
>         (dup) - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1798)
>         - Add Kafka sink default configuration config.Metadata.Timeout. [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)
>         - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
>         - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    + TiCDC
        (dup) - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)
        - Reduce lock competition in sink module. [#2760](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2760)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that scanning stock data might fail due to TiKV performing GC when scanning stock data takes too long [#2470](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2470)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that changefeed does not fail fast enough when the ErrGCTTLExceeded error occurs [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)
        (dup) - Add a tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent etcd writes from affecting PD services [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
        - Support batch messages to reduce the EtcdWorker tick frequency. [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)
        (dup) - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1798)
        - Add the default configuration for metadata timeout `config.Metadata.Timeout` in Kafka sink. [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)
        - Change the default value of `MaxMessageBytes` in Kafka sink to 1MB. [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        - Add more monitor metrics and alerts, including "no owner alert" [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
```

>         - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Add more monitor metrics and alerts, including "no owner alert" [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , and "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
```

    + (Backup & Restore) BR

>         - Retry pd request and TiKV IO timeout error [#27787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27787)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Support that after the PD request and TiKV IO timeout error occurs,  they can tryp. [#27787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27787)
```

>         - Support retry after the PD request error and the TiKV I/O timeout error occur [#27787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27787)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Retry BR tasks when encountering the PD request error or the TiKV I/O timeout error [#27787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27787)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Support importing data into tables that have expression index or the index that depends on virtual generated columns [#1404](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1404)
```

>         - Support importing data into tables that have expression index or the index that depends on virtual generated columns [#1404](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1404)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Support importing data into tables that have expression index or the index that depends on virtual generated columns [#1404](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1404)

```

> ## Bug fixes

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion

## Bug fixes
```

    (dup) - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    (dup) - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    - Fix the TiDB panic when inserting invalid date values concurrently [#25393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25393)
    - Fix the unexpected `can not found column in Schema column` error for queries in the MPP mode [#30980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30980)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when TiFlash is shuting down [#28096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28096)
    - Fix the unexpected `index out of range` error when the planner is doing join reorder [#24095](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24095)
    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the control functions (such as `IF` and `CASE WHEN`) when using the `ENUM` type data as parameters of such functions [#23114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23114)
    - Fix the wrong result of `CONCAT(IFNULL(TIME(3))` [#29498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29498)

>     - Fix the wrong results of `GREATEST` and `LEAST` when passing in unsigned `BIGINT` arguments  [#30101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30101)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix wrong results of `GREATEST` and `LEAST` when passing in unsigned `BIGINT` arguments [#30101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30101)
```

    - Fix the wrong result of `CONCAT(IFNULL(TIME(3))` [#29498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29498)
    - Fix wrong results of `GREATEST` and `LEAST` when passing in unsigned `BIGINT` arguments [#30101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30101)
    - Fix the issue that a SQL operation is canceled when its JSON type column joins its `CHAR` type column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)
    - Fix the data inconsistency issue caused by incorrect usage of lazy existence check and untouched key optimization [#30410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30410)
    - Fix the issue that window functions might return different results when using a transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)

>     - Fix the issue that SQL statements that contain `cast(integer as char) union string` return wrong result [#29513](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29513)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when converting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
>     - Fix the issue that the `Column 'col_name' in field list is ambiguous` error is raised unexpectedly when a SQL statement contains natural join [#25041](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25041)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (`on` or `off`) [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
>     - Fix the issue that the `index out of range [1] with length 1` error is raised when a SQL statement tries to evaluate an aggregation result on the result of join in some cases [#1978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1978)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the SQL statements that contain `cast(integer as char) union string` return wrong results [#29513](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29513)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when casting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
    - Fix the issue that the `Column 'col_name' in field list is ambiguous` error is reported unexpectedly when a SQL statement contains natural join [#25041](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25041)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (set to `on` or `off`) [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
    - Fix the issue that the `index out of range [1] with length 1` error is reported when a SQL statement evaluates an aggregation result on the result of join in some cases [#1978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1978)
```

    - Fix follower meta corruption in rare cases with more than 4 replicas [#10225](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10225)
    - Fix backup threads leak [#10287](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10287)
    - copr cast invalid utf8 string to real bug fix [#23322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23322)

+ PD

    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs after the TiKV node is removed [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
    - Fix the issue that operator can get blocked due to down store [#3353](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3353)
    (dup) - Fix slow leader election caused by stucked Region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)
    (dup) - Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule Regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)
    - Fix the issue that there is the store limit of remove peer of the down store [#4090](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4090)
    - Fix the issue that the hot cache cannot be cleared when the heartbeat interval is less than 60 [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix potential data inconsistency after widening the integer primary key of a table
>     - Fix the issue that a TiFlash fails to start up on platforms without library "libnsl.so", like on ARM
>     - Fix the issue that "Store size" metric does not match the actual data size on disk
>     - Fix an issue that causes TiFlash crashing by "Cannot open file".
>     - Fix tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed
>     - Fix the issue of unexpected error that "3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants"
>     - Increase the max supported depth of expression/plan tree in dag request from 100 to 200.
>     - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong
>     - Fix the inconsistent behavior of `CastStringAsDecimal` between tiflash and tidb/tikv
>     - Fix the error "different types: expected Nullable(Int64), got Int64" which causes query failure
>     - Fix the error "Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)" which cases query failure
>     - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow, which result in query failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after widening the column type of an integer primary key
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up on some platforms, such as ARM, due to the absence of library "libnsl.so"
    - Fix the issue that the "Store size" metric does not match the actual data size on a disk
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashea due to a "Cannot open file" error
    - Fix occasional crashes of TiFlash when an MPP query is killed
    - Fix the unexpected error "3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants"
    - Fix query failures caused by excessive `OR` conditions
    - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong
    - Fix inconsistent behaviors of `CastStringAsDecimal` between TiFlash and TiDB/TiKV
    - Fix query failures caused by the error "different types: expected Nullable(Int64), got Int64"
    - Fix query failures caused by the error "Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)"
    - Fix query failures caused by overflow following Decimal comparison
```
"Increase the max supported depth of expression/plan tree in dag request from 100 to 200"----This bug fix looks more like an improvement. Have optimized the sentence. @flowbehappy. PTAL. Thanks.

Reviewer 10: crashea -> crashed ?

Reviewer 10: LGTM

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        (dup) - Fix the issue that some partitioned tables without valid indexes might be ignored when `force-replicate` is enabled [#2834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2834)

>         - Fix cdc cli silently truncated user parameters when receiving unexpected parameters, causing the user input parameters to be lost. [#2303](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2303)
>         - Fix cdc scheduling tables too early. [#2625](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2625)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that cdc cli silently truncates user parameters when receiving unexpected parameters, causing the user input parameters to be lost. [#2303](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2303)
        - Fix the issue that cdc scheduls tables too early. [#2625](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2625)
```

Reviewer 8: 第一条 [#2303](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2303) 的 issue 里写的是 “data loss“，这里是指数据丢失还是用户输入参数丢失呢？

Reviewer 8: 第二条 [#2625](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2625) 看 PR 描述似乎是集成测试遇到了问题，并不是面向用户的 bug？需要研发确认一下。

Reviewer 7: @overvenus 麻烦确认下？多谢！

Reviewer 9: > 第一条 #2303 的 issue 里写的是 “data loss“，这里是指数据丢失还是用户输入参数丢失呢？

用户输入参数丢失，它导致用户错误地认为丢数据了（少同步数据了）。

Reviewer 7: > 第二条 [#2625](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2625) 看 PR 描述似乎是集成测试遇到了问题，并不是面向用户的 bug？需要研发确认一下。

@amyangfei 老师能确认下吗？这一条要不要删掉？

Reviewer 11: [#2625](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2625) 并不是对 v5.0.5 上已有的问题的修复，所以不应该暴露给用户。

Reviewer 7: 好的，那我们删掉了。

        - Fix the issue of the inaccurate `txn_batch_size` monitoring metric for Kafka sink [#3431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3431)
        (dup) - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)
        (dup) - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that `tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m` keeps alerting when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)
        (dup) - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)
        - Fix the TiCDC panic issue that occurs when manually cleaning the task status in etcd [#2980](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2980)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        (dup) - Improve the robustness of restoring [#27421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27421)

>         - Fix the error that occurs when TiDB Lightning imports a table with expression index in the Local-backend mode [#1404](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1404)
>         - Fix the issue of inaccurate average speed in BR [#1405](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1405)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that the average speed is inaccurately calculated for backup and restore [#1405](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1405)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.0.6 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.0.6 Release Notes

Release date: December 28, 2021

TiDB version: 5.0.6

## Compatibility changes

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

+ Tools

    + TiCDC
        - Output the cdc server cmd error from stdout to stderr. [#3875](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3875)
```

## Feature enhancements

## Improvements

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ PD
- speed scheduler exit [#4201](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4201)
```

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

+ Tools

    + TiCDC
        - Optimize the rate limit control when TiKV reloads. [#3132](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3132)
        - Reduce lock competition in sink module. [#2760](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2760)
        - Extend creating service gc safepoint ttl to 1 hour to support creating changefeeds that needs long initialization time. [#2852](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2852)
        - Changefeed supports fast fail when occur ErrGCTTLExceeded error. [#3135](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3135)
        - Add rate limiter to limit EtcdWorker tick frequency. [#3268](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3268)
        - Support batch messages to reduce EtcdWorker tick. [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3391)
        - Support unified sorter cgroup aware. [#3441](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3441)
        - Add Kafka sink default configuration config.Metadata.Timeout. [#3670](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3670)
        - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3107)
        - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#3834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3834), "mounter row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "table sink total row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "buffer sink total row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "go gc" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "go_max_procs" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "cached region" [#2733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2733).
```

## Bug fixes

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Fix table is not replicated when adding partition about partition table without valid index. [#2864](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2864)
        - Fix cdc cli silently truncated user parameters when receiving unexpected parameters, causing the user input parameters to be lost. [#2888](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2888)
        - Fix cdc scheduling tables too early. [#2633](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2633)
        - Fix Kafka_producer deadlock when an error occurs in asyncClient. [#3016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3016)
        - Fix MQ sink don't support non binary json string encoding. [#2782](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2782)
        - Fix Kafka sink can not send message due to constraint by `max-message-size` option. [#3047](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3047)
        - Fix  fallback resolvedTs event  block the progress of resolve lock when meet region merging. [#3100](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3100)
        - Fix unexpected duplicate region request stream issue. [#3091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3091)
        - Fix changefeed region loss when multiple TiKVs crash or forcing restart. [#3291](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3291)
        - Fix changefeed checkpoint lag metric negative value error. [#3533](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3533)
        - Fix MySQL sink deadlock warning too frequently. [#3797](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3797)
        - Fix Avro sink don't support json type column. [#3651](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3651) 
        - Fix read error schema snapshot from TiKV when owner restart. [#2610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2610) 
        - Fix schema GC not work correctly and OOM issue when processing too many DDL. [#3275](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3275)
        - Fix old value enabled is not forced on Canal and Maxwell protocols automatically. [#3780](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3780)
        - Fix timezone related error that cause cdc server can't run in some RHEL release version (6.8, 6.9 etc).  [#3908](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3908)
        - Fix txn_batch_size metric inaccurate issue for Kafka sink. [#3820](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3820)
        - Fix Kafka partition count not check when auto-create-topic is disabled by the user. [#3566](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3566)
        - Fix Kafka message too large for broker. [#3566](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3566)
        - Fix EtcdWorker row metric error. [#4000](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4000)
        - Fix tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m keep firing when there is no changefeed. [#3024](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3024)
        - Fix the congestion in gPRC, which may cause slow initialization phase. [#3132](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3132)
```

## __unsorted

> + PingCAP/TiDB

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
# TiDB

## Bug Fix

- Fix the problem that error is raised when a grant/revoke SQL contains global level identifier. [#30161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30161)
- Fix the problem that adding index panics by chance. [#30125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30125)
- config: fix the problem that the `enforce-mpp` config item is useless in v5.0.4. [#29637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29637)
- Fix the panic when the `case-when` function meets enum type input argument. [#29509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29509)
- Fix the problem that result of the `microsecond` function is wrong in vectorized evaluation. [#29385](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29385)
- Fix the problem that the log lose the SQL text when auto analyze fails. [#29228](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29228)
- Fix the problem that result of the `hour` function is wrong in vectorized evaluation. [#28871](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28871)
- Fix the problem that unexpected error like `tidb_cast to Int32 is not supported` is raised when executing a MPP query. [#28651](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28651)
- Fix the problem that MPP node availability detection does not work in some corner cases. [#28287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28287)
- Fix the problem that data-race may happen when alloc MPP task id. [#28284](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28284)
- Fix the problem that `index out of range [-1]` error is raised when a SQL contains `Union` and is running in MPP mode. [#28278](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28278)
- Fix the problem that TiDB panicks when inserting invalid date values concurrently. [#28198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28198)
- Fix the problem that the error like `can not found column in Schema column` is raised unexpectedly for mpp queries. [#28147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28147)
- Fix the problem that TiDB may crash when TiFlash shut down. [#28138](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28138)
- Fix the problem that the `index out of range` error is raised unexpectly when the planner doing join reorder. [#30881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30881). 
- Fix the problem that the results of `if`,`case-when`,`elt` functions are wrong when the input arguments if of type enum. [#30857](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30857)
- Fix the problem the `concat(ifnull(time(3))` returns wrong result. [#30830](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30830)
- Fix the problem that `greatest/least(unsigned)` returns wrong result. [#30791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30791)
- Fix the problem that SQL is cancelled when including json column joins char column. [#30778](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30778)
- Fix the data inconsistency caused by incorrect usage of lazy existence check and untouch key optimization. [#30533](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30533)
- Fix the problem that window function may return different results when using transaction or not. [#30389](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30389)
- Fix the problem that `cast(integer as char) union string` returns wrong result.[#30055](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30055)
- Fix the problem that `concat(decimal_col)` returns wrong result. [#30014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30014)
- Fix the problem that the error `Column 'col_name' in field list is ambiguous` is raised unexpectedly when a SQL contains natural join. [#30049](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30049)
- Fix the problem that `greatest` returns different results when `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` is on or not. [#29917](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29917)
- Fix the problem that planner may cache invalid plans for joins in some cases [#28445](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28445)
- Fix the problem that the error `index out of range [1] with length 1` is raised when a SQL tries to evaluates an aggregation result on the result of join in some cases. [#28295](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28295)

## Enhancement
- Prevent conflicted optimistic transactions from locking each other. [#29776](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29776)
- Avoid confusing error log like `invalid cop task execution summaries length` when running MPP query. [#28262](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28262)
- The debug log on coprocessor doesn't print out the statement when encountering a lock, which makes it difficult to know what statement was affected by the lock. This fix tries to add the statement.[#27927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27927)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that optimistic transaction conflicts might cause transactions to block each other [#11148](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11148)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)
    (dup) - Show the affected SQL statements in the debug log when the coprocessor encounters a lock, which is helpful in diagnosing problems [#27718](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27718)

+ TiKV

    - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to import thread pool from apply thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)

>     - Add metrics for the garbage collection module of Raft logs to locate performance problems in this module [#11374](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11374)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add metrics for the garbage collection module of Raft logs to locate performance problems in the module [#11374](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11374)
```

>     - Collapse some uncommon metrics related to storage in Grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Collapse some uncommon metrics related to the storage module in Grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)
```

>     - Collapse some uncommon metrics related to the storage module in Grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Collapse some uncommon storage-related metrics in Grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)
```

>     - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to import thread pool from apply thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)
>     - Add metrics for the garbage collection module of Raft logs to locate performance problems in the module [#11374](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11374)
>     - Collapse some uncommon storage-related metrics in Grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to the `Import` thread pool from the `Apply` thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)
    - Add more metrics for the garbage collection module of Raft logs to locate performance problems in the module [#11374](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11374)
    - Collapse some uncommon storage-related metrics in Grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)
```

+ PD

    (dup) - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)

>     - Make scatter range scheduler work better by allowing empty region schedule and fix config [#4116](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4116)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Make scatter range scheduler work better by allowing empty region schedule and fix config [#4497](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4497)
```

>     - Make the `scatter-range-scheduler` scheduler work better by allowing to schedule empty regions and fix configurations [#4497](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4497)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Make the scheduling results of `scatter-range-scheduler` scheduler are more even by allowing the scheduler to schedule empty Regions and fix the configurations of the scheduler [#4497](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4497)
```

>     - Make the scheduling results of `scatter-range-scheduler` scheduler are more even by allowing the scheduler to schedule empty Regions and fix the configurations of the scheduler [#4497](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4497)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Make the scheduling results of the `scatter-range-scheduler` scheduler more even by allowing the scheduler to schedule empty Regions and fix the configurations of the scheduler [#4497](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4497)
```

+ Tools

    + TiCDC
        - Optimize the rate limit control when TiKV reloads. [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3110)
        - Reduce lock competition in sink module. [#2760](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2760)
        - Extend creating service gc safepoint ttl to 1 hour to support creating changefeeds that needs long initialization time. [#2470](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2470)
        - Changefeed supports fast fail when occur ErrGCTTLExceeded error. [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3111)
        - Add rate limiter to limit EtcdWorker tick frequency. [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)

>         - Support batch messages to reduce EtcdWorker tick. [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3391)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Support batch messages to reduce EtcdWorker tick. [3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)
```

>         - Support unified sorter cgroup aware. [#3441](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3441)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Add rate limiter to limit EtcdWorker tick frequency. [3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)
        - Support batch messages to reduce EtcdWorker tick. [3112](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3112)
        - Support unified sorter cgroup aware. [1798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1798)
        - Add Kafka sink default configuration config.Metadata.Timeout. [#3539](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3539)
```

> + TiKV/TiKV

Reviewer 13: ## Bug Fix

- Fix resolved timestamp lag increased after stoping a tikv [#11538](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11538)
- Fix connection abort caused by TiKV does not estimate the size of field `term` and index` [#11532](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11532)
- Fix panic in rare conditions when merge, conf change and snapshot happen at the same time [#11510](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11510)
- Fix the issue that reverse scan can't detect memory locks and may read stale data. [#11453](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11453)
- Add metrics for raft log garbage-collect to locate performance problem. [#11381](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11381)
- Fix negative sign when decimal divide to zero [#11333](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11333)
- Avoid possible OOM due to the accumulation of GC tasks [#11419](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11419)
-

        - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)

>     + (Backup & Restore) BR

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    + Backup & Restore (BR)
```

>         - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#3834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3834), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606), "go gc" , "go_max_procs" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "cached region" [#2733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2733).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
```

>         - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#3834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3834), "mounter row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "table sink total row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "buffer sink total row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "go gc" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "go_max_procs" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "cached region" [#2733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2733).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" , "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row", "go gc" , "go_max_procs" , "cached region". [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
```

>         - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#3834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3834), "mounter row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "table sink total row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "buffer sink total row" [#2830](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2830), "go gc" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "go_max_procs" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "cached region" [#2733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2733).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#3834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3834), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606), "go gc" , "go_max_procs" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "cached region" [#2733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2733).
```

    - move verify_checksum to import-thread from apply-thread. [#11257](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11257)
    - Fix label leaking of thread metrics [#11201](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11201)
    - Fix CDC panic due to missing downstream. [#11136](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11136)
    - Fix frequent CDC incremental scan retry due to `Congest` error. [#11090](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11090)
    - fix channel full could break the raft connection [#11070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11070)
    - Hide untouched storage commands' metrics in grafana dashboard [#11001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11001)
    - Do not delete import files during Lightning import. [#10740](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10740)
    - copr: fix Max/Min bug when comparing signed and unsigned int64 [#10617](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10617)
    - - fix follower meta corruption in rare cases with more than 4 replicas [#10500](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10500)
    - ```release-note [#10361](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10361)
    - copr cast invalid utf8 string to real bug fix [#9871](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/9871)

+ PingCAP/TiFlash

>     - Fix potential data inconsistency when widen pk column type if pk is handle [#3572](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3572)

Reviewer 14: replace it with:

- Fix potential data inconsistency when widen pk column type if pk is handle [#3572](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3572)
- Fix Tiflash arm build when include `libnsl.so`. Try copy `libnsl.so` to `INSTALL_DIR` [#3205](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3205)
- Fix store size on `tiflash metrics` is not consistent.Decrease the size of checkpoint file when removing it  [#3187](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3187)
- Fix exception: `GC` removed normal file which just created [#3226](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3226)
- Fix sync schema exception when user upgrade the TiFlash version. [#2701](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2701)
- Fix tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed. [#3448](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3448)
- Fix throw not constants exception in `substringUTF8` [#3266](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3266)
- Fix decode DAG request failed.Add retry when decode DAG request failed. [#3678](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3678)
- Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong because it will be converted to int type. [#3477](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3477)
- Fix `main_capacity_quota_` check  [#3425](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3425)
- Fix the inconsistent behavior of `CastStringAsDecimal` between tiflash and tidb/tikv. [#3674](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3674)
- Fix exception: `expected Nullable(Int64), got Int64`. Sending schemas in exchangeSender to avoid schema mismatch. [#3369](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3369)
- Fix the issue of unexpected error that `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3376](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3376)
- Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report Can't compare. [#3097](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3097)

    (dup) - Fix  the unexpected error like `tidb_cast to Int32 is not supported` when the unsupported `cast` is pushed down to TiFlash [#23907](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23907)
    (dup) - Fix a bug that the availability detection of MPP node does not work in some corner cases [#3118](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/3118)
    (dup) - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    (dup) - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    - Fix the TiDB panic when inserting invalid date values concurrently [#25393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25393)

>     - Fix the unexpected `can not found column in Schema column` error for queries in the MPP mode [#28147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28147)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the unexpected `can not found column in Schema column` error for queries in the MPP mode [#30980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30980)
```

    - fix the problem that the hot cache cannot be emptied when the interval is less than 60 [#4432](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4432)
    - None. [#4288](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4288)
    - speed scheduler exit [#4201](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4201)
    - allow empty region to be scheduled and use a sperate tolerance config in scatter range scheduler [#4116](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4116)

+ Tools

    + PingCAP/BR

        - Increase the robustness for restoring. [#1438](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1438)
        - ```release-note [#1436](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1436)
        - Expression index and index depending on virtual generated columns are now valid. Previously these indices are broken when importing through Lightning local or importer backend. [#1419](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1419)
        - fix the bug that the average speed isn't accurate in backup and restore [#1411](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1411)

    + PingCAP/Dumpling

        - fix the bug that dumpling gets very slow when dumping composite primary/unique key tables. [#399](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/399)

    + PingCAP/TiCDC

>         - None (not released yet) [#4000](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4000)

Reviewer 6: Fix EtcdWorker row metric error.

>     - Fix the issue that a downed TiKV node causes the resolved timestamp to lag behind [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a down TiKV node causes the resolved timestamp to lag [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when `TableScan` is in descending order [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV perform a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
    - Fix the issue that the accumulation of GC tasks might cause TiKV to be OOM (out of memory) [#11410](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11410)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the average latency of the by-instance gRPC requests is inaccurate in TiKV metrics [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)
    (dup) - Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of TiCDC panic that occurs when the downstream database is missing [#11123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11123)

>     (dup) - Fix the issue that CDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiCDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the Raft connection is broken when the channel is full [#11047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11047)

>     - Fix the issue of TiKV panic that occurs when the files do not exist when Lightning importing data [#10438](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10438)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of TiKV panic that occurs when the files do not exist when TiDB Lightning imports data [#10438](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10438)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB cannot correctly identify whether the `Int64` types in `Max`/`Min` functions are a signed integer or not, which causes the wrong calculation result of `Max`/`Min` [#10158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10158)

>     - Fix the issue that the nodes of a TiKV replica are down after the nodes get snapshots because TiKV cannot modify the meta information accurately [#10225](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10225)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the node of a TiKV replica is down after the node gets snapshots because TiKV cannot modify the metadata accurately [#10225](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10225)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the backup thread pool leaks [#10287](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10287)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the leak issue of the backup thread pool [#10287](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10287)
```

>     - Fix the issue of converting illegal strings into floating-point arithmetic [#23322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23322)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of casting illegal strings into floating-point numbers [#23322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23322)
```

+ PD

    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs after the TiKV node is removed [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
    - Fix the issue that operator can get blocked due to down store [#3353](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3353)
    (dup) - Fix slow leader election caused by stucked Region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)
    (dup) - Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule Regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)
    - Fix the issue that the speed of removing peers is limited when repairing the down nodes [#4090](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4090)

>     - Fix the issue that the hotspot Cache cannot be cleared when the Region heartbeat is less than 60 seconds [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the hotspot cache cannot be cleared when the Region heartbeat is less than 60 seconds [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)
```

    - planner: fix the issue that planner may cache invalid plans for joins in some cases [#28445](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28445)
    - Keep the original join schema in predicate pushdown [#28295](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28295)

+ PingCAP/TiFlash

    - Align unix_timestamp behavior with TiDB and mysql when input is earlier than 1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC [#3622](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3622)
    - fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`. [#3366](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3366)
    - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants.` [#3266](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3266)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl` [#3205](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3205)
    - ```release-note [#2701](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2701)
    - Fix problem that TiDB Dashboard can not display disk information of TiFlash correctly in some situations. [#2397](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2397)

+ PD

>     - Fix panic issue after TiKV node scales in [#4379](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4379)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix panic issue after TiKV node scales in with some corner cases [#4379](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4379)
```

    - Fix the issue that operator can get blocked due to down store [#4367](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4367)
    - Fix the issue that PD may not elect leader as soon as leader step down [#4218](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4218)

>     - `evict-leader-scheduler` supports schedule the regions with unhealthy peers. [#4130](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4130)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - `evict-leader-scheduler` supports schedule the regions with unhealthy peers. [#4130](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4130)
    - schedule: not limit remove peer of the down store [#4097](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4097)
    - fix the problem that the hot cache cannot be emptied when the interval is less than 60 [#4432](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4432)
    - allow empty region to be scheduled and use a sperate tolerance config in scatter range scheduler [#4116](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4116)
```

>         - Fix EtcdWorker row metric error. [#4000](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```

        (dup) - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1798)
        - Add Kafka sink default configuration config.Metadata.Timeout. [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)
        - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        - Add more monitor metric and alert, including "no owner alert" [#3834](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3834), "mounter row" , "table sink total row" , "buffer sink total row" [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606), "go gc" , "go_max_procs" [#2998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2998), "cached region" [#2733](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/2733).

    + (Backup & Restore) BR

        - Retry pd request and TiKV IO timeout error [#27787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27787)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    (dup) - Fix the `privilege check fail` error when performing the `grant` and `revoke` operations to grant and revoke global level privileges [#29675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29675)

>     - Fix the problem that adding index panics by chance [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)
>     - Fix the problem that the `enforce-mpp` config item is useless in v5.0.4 [#29252](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29252)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiDB panic when executing the `ALTER TABLE.. ADD INDEX` statement in some cases [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)
    - Fix the issue that the configuration of `enforce-mpp` does not take effect in v5.0.4 [#29252](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29252)
```

    (dup) - Fix the panic when using the `CASE WHEN` function on the `ENUM` data type [#29357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29357)
    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of incomplete log information from the `auto analyze` result [#29188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29188)
    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
    (dup) - Fix  the unexpected error like `tidb_cast to Int32 is not supported` when the unsupported `cast` is pushed down to TiFlash [#23907](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23907)
    (dup) - Fix a bug that the availability detection of MPP node does not work in some corner cases [#3118](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/3118)
    (dup) - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    (dup) - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)

>     - Fix the problem that TiDB panicks when inserting invalid date values concurrently [#25393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25393)
>     - Fix the problem that the error like `can not found column in Schema column` is raised unexpectedly for mpp queries [#28147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28147)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiDB panic when inserting invalid date values concurrently [#25393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25393)
    - Fix the unexpected `can not found column in Schema column` error for MPP queries [#28147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28147)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when TiFlash is shuting down [#28096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28096)

>     - Fix the problem that the `index out of range` error is raised unexpectly when the planner doing join reorder [#24095](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24095).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the unexpected `index out of range` error when the planner is doing join reorder [#24095](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24095).
```

    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the control functions (such as `IF` and `CASE WHEN`) when using the `ENUM` type data as parameters of such functions [#23114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23114)

>     - Fix the problem the `concat(ifnull(time(3))` returns wrong result [#29498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29498)
>     - Fix the problem that `greatest/least(unsigned)` returns wrong result [#30101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30101)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong result of `concat(ifnull(time(3))` [#29498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29498)
    - Fix the wrong results of `greatest` and `least` when passing in unsigned `bigint` arguments  [#30101](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30101)
```

    - Fix the problem that SQL is cancelled when including json column joins char column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)
    - Fix the data inconsistency caused by incorrect usage of lazy existence check and untouch key optimization [#30410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30410)
    - Fix the problem that window function may return different results when using transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)
    - Fix the problem that `cast(integer as char) union string` returns wrong result[#29513](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29513)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when converting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
    - Fix the problem that the error `Column 'col_name' in field list is ambiguous` is raised unexpectedly when a SQL contains natural join [#25041](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25041)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (`on` or `off`) [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)

>     (dup) (dup) - Fix the issue that planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    (dup) - Fix the issue that planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
```

    - Fix follower meta corruption in rare cases with more than 4 replicas [#10225](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10225)
    - Fix backup threads leak [#10287](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10287)
    - copr cast invalid utf8 string to real bug fix [#23322](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23322)

+ PD

    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs after the TiKV node is removed [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
    - Fix the issue that operator can get blocked due to down store [#3353](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3353)
    (dup) - Fix slow leader election caused by stucked Region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)
    (dup) - Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule Regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)
    - Fix the issue that there is the store limit of remove peer of the down store [#4090](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4090)
    - Fix the issue that the hot cache cannot be cleared when the heartbeat interval is less than 60 [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix potential data inconsistency when widen pk column type if pk is handle

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after widening the primary key of a table
```

>     - Fix Tiflash arm build when include `libnsl.so`. Try copy `libnsl.so` to `INSTALL_DIR`

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix Tiflash arm build when include `libnsl.so`
```

>     - Fix store size on `tiflash metrics` is not consistent.Decrease the size of checkpoint file when removing it

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that "Store size" metric does not match the actual data size on disk
```

>     - Fix exception: `GC` removed normal file which just created

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix an issue that causes TiFlash crashing by "Cannot open file".
```

>     - Fix sync schema exception when user upgrade the TiFlash version

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed

>     - Fix throw not constants exception in `substringUTF8`

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants.`
```

>     - Fix decode DAG request failed.Add retry when decode DAG request failed

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Increase the max supported depth of expression/plan tree in dag request from 100 to 200.
```

>     - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong because it will be converted to int type

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong
```

>     - Fix `main_capacity_quota_` check

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the inconsistent behavior of `CastStringAsDecimal` between tiflash and tidb/tikv

>     - Fix exception: `expected Nullable(Int64), got Int64`. Sending schemas in exchangeSender to avoid schema mismatch

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix exception "different types: expected Nullable(Int64), got Int64" which cause query fails
```

>     - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)`

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the error "Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)" which cases query failure
```

>     - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report Can't compare

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow, which cases query failure
```

        (dup) - Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2978)
        (dup) - Fix a possible panic issue when encoding some types of columns into Open Protocol format [#2758](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2758)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2962)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3061)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2386)
        (dup) - Fix the TiCDC replication interruption issue when multiple TiKVs crash or during a forced restart [#3288](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3288)
        (dup) - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3010)

>         - Fix MySQL sink deadlock warning too frequently. [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue of overly frequent warnings caused by MySQL sink deadlock. [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)
```

>         - Fix Avro sink don't support json type column. [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns. [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
```

>         - Fix read error schema snapshot from TiKV when owner restart. [#2603](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2603)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that TiCDC reads the incorrect schema snapshot from TiKV when the TiKV owner restarts. [#2603](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2603)
```

        (dup) - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)
        - Fix EtcdWorker row metric error. [#4000](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4000)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that `tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m` keeps alerting when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)
        (dup) - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

    + (Backup & Restore) BR

        (dup) - Improve the robustness of restoring [#27421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27421)
        - Fix failed after importing table with expression index using local backend. [#1404](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1404)
        - Fix the average speed isn't accurate in backup and restore [#1405](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1405)

    + Dumpling

>         - Fix the bug that dumpling gets very slow when dumping composite primary/unique key tables. [#29386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29386)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that Dumpling becomes very slow when dumping tables with the composite primary key or unique key [#29386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29386)
```
